1. C is one of the most widely used programming languages of all time and C compilers are available for the majority of available computer architectures and operating systems.
Many later languages have borrowed directly or indirectly from C, including D, Go, Rust, Java, JavaScript, Limbo, LPC, C#, Objective-C, Perl, PHP, Python, Verilog (hardware description language), and Unix's C shell. These languages have drawn many of their control structures and other basic features from C.
2. C++ is a general purpose programming language. It has imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features, while also providing the facilities for low level memory manipulation. It is designed with a bias for systems programming (e.g. embedded systems, operating system kernels), with performance, efficiency and flexibility of use as its design requirements. C++ has also been found useful in many other contexts, including desktop applications, servers (e.g. e-commerce, web search, SQL), performance critical applications (e.g. telephone switches, space probes) and entertainment software, such as video games.
3. Java is a programming language and computing platform first released by Sun Microsystems in 1995. There are lots of applications and websites that will not work unless you have Java installed, and more are created every day. Java is fast, secure, and reliable. From laptops to datacenters, game consoles to scientific supercomputers, cell phones to the Internet. Java and C# are similar programming languages that are statically, strongly, and manifestly typed, both are class-based object-oriented, both are designed with semi-interpretation or runtime compilation in mind, both use garbage-collection, and both are "curly brace languages" like C and C++.
4.PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language. PHP code can be simply mixed with HTML code, or it can be used in combination with various templating engines and web frameworks. PHP is a way different from C#- PHP is especialy suited for Web Development and can be embedded into HTML. In the other side C# is used for Government, Cloud computing, Web Development, App development, Intanet, Game development.
5.Java Script is a dynamic computer programming language. It is most commonly used as part of web browsers, whose implementations allow client-side scripts to interact with the user, control the browser, communicate asynchronously, and alter the document content that is displayed. Both C# and Java Script are Object Oriented Programming languages, but Java Script is a scripting language for computers and it is often run in web browser applications to create dynamic content like message boxes popping up or a live clock. 